Hundreds of mourners have gathered at Westfield Bondi Junction to reflect and pay tribute to the six people who had their lives cut tragically short when they were killed during a stabbing rampage on Saturday afternoon.
A 40-year-old Queensland man with mental health issues fatally knifed five shoppers - new mum Ash Good, 38, Dawn Singleton, 25, mum and architect Jade Young, 47, Georgian woman Pikria Darchia, 55, Chinese national and student Cheng Yixuan, 25 - and on-duty Westfield security guard Faraz Tahir, 25.
At least 12 others, including Ms Good’s nine-month-old baby girl, were seriously wounded, with some still remaining in hospitals.
Under sunny skies, locals and those from across the city met outside the shopping precinct on Thursday morning ahead of a six-hour reflection day organised for the community.
The doors of the usually bustling centre - which were plastered with black ribbons as a symbol of mourning, remembrance and to show solidarity with the victims’ families and loved ones - opened at 11am.
NSW Premier Chris Minns and the state’s Police Commissioner Karen Webb entered the shopping centre about 15 minutes prior to it opening to the public.
Six wreaths of white and yellow flowers - each representing the six victims - were displayed on the fourth level of the precinct.
Alongside were condolence books and black ribbon pins in a bowl, which mourners were encouraged to take one to wear to remember the victims.
Some workers spent their lunch time waiting in the 30-minute queue to write a note to the families.
Loved ones embraced one another, some in tears. Well-wishers also brought flowers, laying them alongside the six wreaths, as they were overcome with emotion thinking about the innocent lives taken and some of the heroic final acts, such as Ms Good thrusting her nine-month-old daughter to the safety of two men who no doubt saved the child’s life, and Mr Tahir who died on his first day shift at Westfield trying to protect shoppers.
Due to the unease in the community, police officers patrolled the centre near the memorial and walked around the shopping centre.
The quiet reflection day comes less than 24 hours before Westfield Bondi Junction reopens for trade, almost one week after the attack.
Some store owners and employees have returned back to their businesses in preparation for reopening. Meanwhile, directly outside the centre, the floral tribute, sheltered by a portable gazebo, continues to grow with well-wishers stopping by to leave flowers and heart-felt letters.
Mourners could be seen pausing for a few minutes near the barricades that surrounded the tribute to remember the six victims, some who were overcome with emotion.
NSW Opposition Leader Mark Speakman stopped by the site with Vaucluse member Kellie Sloan, who earlier told Sky News Australia that the community is “benefiting from having a chat”.
Lifeline personnel and other mental health support was also on hand for any mourners who wanted to talk about how to process the tragedy.
Mr Minns said he felt it was “very important” for the community to come together and have an opportunity to reflect following the traumatic events of Saturday.
“It is the first step in healing,” he told a press conference in Surry Hills.
“As I said to a few people this morning, it is not back to normal for Sydney, but this is an opportunity to get some kind of grieving and to turn the page on what has been a very difficult period.
